Alright! In this video, what we are
going to do is we're going to look at
adding in a Pet Clinic Index Page and
controller so we're going to start doing
the web aspect of the development.
Right now, what we want to do is
just lay down a very basic framework for
the web development. I'm not going to do all flesh
out the total HTML at this point. I'm
just laying down the basics. What I'm
showing you is some iterative development
so we are going to definitely be
iterating on this. I'm going to go ahead
and assign this to myself so we are
going to be working on issue #8.
We're going to come back over here
to IntelliJ. What I want to do is
come under here under templates I'm
going to create a New File.
Just call that index.html like so. I'm going  to
add that in to Git.
Actually,
that's not what I want to do. I'm going to
come back over here. I made a mistake
there. Going to come back and delete this
and say, now I want to do  a
New File. I want to do a New HTML File.
That gives me some basic stuff there so
let's go ahead and say New HTML File. You
can see that I can do 5 for XHTML. We
are going to do 5 because that is
compatible with Thymeleaf
like so.
Add that to Git.
Pet Clinic Index. I am just going to
put in
for what right now h1, heading one tag,
Index Page like so. Okay, so this is now
just a standard HTML template. I will
show you more in the course as we go
forward
about Thymeleaf. But one thing I'm going
to do right now is I'm going to come in
and add in. This is an xml namespace for
Thymeleaf.
I'm going to put that in as a
placeholder.
What this does is it gives us and the 'th'
tags.
The reason I'm doing this adding in
this tag right here for the h1 heading. A
piece of advice from IntelliJ, if you
just put it in the namespace,
I do have optimized imports on it and
there has been times where in IntelliJ
well whack that if you don't have any of
the tags there, so that's why I'm going ahead in
adding this. I just made this HTML
document into a Thymeleaf template. I'm
definitely going to be showing you more as
the class progresses. I'm just putting
out a placeholder here for right now.
What I want to do now is I have this
template defined. You can see that's
under templates. In the templates folder,
that is the default for Spring Boot. Now
what do I come in to do it is with Java
is let's come into our pet clinic and
I'm going to create a New Package.
Call that controllers
and now let's
come up here and I'm going to do a New Java
Class.
I'm going to call it IndexController.
Going to go ahead and add
that to Git. I need to annotate this
as @Controller, like so, and now, what I'm
going to do is public String
index which isn't going to take anything
and I'm going to return back, like
so. This is a simple controller.
I have a method here called index.
It returns back index, the string
index and what happens with Thymeleaf is
it's going to go back and look for a
template called index. So you don't have
to say index.html, just index is fine.
This wires up this controller
for that. Now what I want to do
is that @RequestMapping,
I'm going to do this. Give it a list
of an empty string
slash
like so.
Now we can see here is I've given in
a RequestMapping, a list of parameters
and I'm saying an empty string just
slash index, index.html. What it means
is when there's a request that comes in
to the root context or root slash
index or index.html, they're all
going to match to this RequestMapping
so let's go ahead and run this right now.
I'm going to go ahead and start Spring
Boot.
You can see that's building down at
the bottom there. We're starting it up.
See this vizsla  logo there.
One trick here is you can see right
here, I get this highlighted, you can see
that's my mapping there and you can see
blank and then the double pipes / double
pipes / index. That is all the
mapping that Spring MVC has done so you
can see that's the Request Handler
Mapping that there Spring MVC. This
is handy to do if you are fighting a
configuration issue where your page
isn't coming up. This is something to
look for. Let's see if Spring MVC is
picking up. I've done it. There's been
plenty of times where I like do the
Request Mapping but I forget this
Controller annotation and then I'm like,
"Why aren't you coming up?" and now you're
looking like" "Oh, don't mean you forgot
the Controller annotation" so something
that happens to the best of us. Now let's
come over to Chrome.
I am going to start up a new tab. Go to localhost
and we
should see our index page. We do not. We
got a 500.
Let's take a look at that.
Template:  "index" so It's telling me that I
have a problem with the Template:  "index".
Line 8 column 9, so line 8
column 9.
I'm going to remove this to see
if that's part of the problem.
Now go ahead and restart this.
I had to restart that. I am going to
show you how to use developer tools
where we don't have to do a bounce like
that, but this will restart and reload.
Let's go ahead and reload this and now
that is showing, but I do want
something in there.
I'm surprised that did not work so I'm
going to go ahead and restart this. That
should replace the text in there.
Go ahead and refresh this.
asdf. I'm not sure what I had done wrong there.
I restart this. I have Index Page in
there.
I don't think I had a typo of there
earlier be honest.
See we are back up. Switch over here and
it should return to index. I think it's because
I am a little rusty with Thymeleaf. We actually need to put single
quotes, a single ticks around that part
to evaluate properly, so let's go ahead
and restart this.
We get it
back up and see if that works because I
think what was happening, as I was
evaluating as an expression.
Let's come back over here and reload
this. Now that is working properly.
Just to recap there, that little
problem I had. What's happening is I am
telling Thymeleaf to replace this value. It
just happens to be the same string value
I mentioned earlier. What happens with
IntelliJ is if you have this empty
namespace up there and you're optimizing
imports unchecking, sometimes an
IntellliJ will whack that. Other than
trying to be helpful for you but not
really. In here, I'm using the Thymeleaf
text tag which says replace the body
here with that. It's been a while
since I actually use this. Use a lot of
different tags usually with Thymeleaf and
here I made a mistake. I forgot to
include the single quotes around the
string so having two ticks makes it a
string. This between the quotes here, what
Thymeleaf is actually doing it's
evaluating that as an expression so i was
getting the 500 error that was causing
it to fail the evaluation. So now that
I have that, we have this up and working
so I am going to go ahead and commit
this and like tick. I forget what number it's
on #8. So this is Add Pet
Clinics and index Page Controller. Say
that I got the controller added. We're
adding in the new IndexController and
the index.html. I'm going to go ahead and
close that now.
I'm going to Commit and Push that
up to GitHub.
Again, it's having this optimize
imports. I like that for my code but I've
had IntelliJ whack out that Thymeleaf
namespace if you're not using it on a
template. So let's go ahead and Push
that.
That is pushed almost.
We can see that is pushed and closed that
right in front of us.